Illustrations are powerful teaching tools.
They help to explain complex ideas.
They also stimulate thinking and can break down prejudice.
Illustrations stir emotions and appeal to the heart.
They're also memory aids.
It's no wonder then that Jesus made good use of them.
Here are three things that will make your illustrations effective.
Select simple illustrations.
Choose them with your listeners in mind
and use them to teach the points that are truly important.
Listen to the following illustration and see if it's effective.
Furthermore, the world is passing away and so is its desire.
But the one who does the will of God remains forever.
If the world is passing away and life in this system of things is temporary,
shouldn't that affect how we use our time and energy?
For example, imagine you're going on a seven-day European cruise.
The ports of color are Lisbon, Gibraltar, Barcelona, Monte Carlo, Florence and Rome.
Because the ship will have many activities, you've chosen an inside cabin.
Although the room is nicely decorated, it's not exactly your taste.
For example, you don't like the brightly colored carpet and walls that are common on many cruise ships.
Also, the bed's bed and curtains are not what you would have chosen.
You have a refrigerator in the room, but it's small.
Would you spend time redecorating the room?
Maybe put down a new carpet.
Paint the room a different color.
Hang new curtains or purchase a larger refrigerator.
Of course not.
Your stay is only temporary.
Similarly, our stay in this system of things is only temporary.
Does it make sense that we would spend time and energy to make our life as comfortable as possible?
Although this illustration made a good point, was it as effective as it could have been?
Was it simple?
Well, was it necessary for the audience to know the reason for the trip, how long the cruise was, or the cities where the ship was stopping?
No, these details actually complicated the illustration.
Here's something else.
Did the speaker have his listeners in mind?
Probably few in his audience have taken a cruise, so it would be hard for them to identify with the situation.
Therefore, the point of the illustration could be lost, or their minds might be diverted to the speaker rather than his message.
How might the speaker have illustrated the same point more effectively?
Let's watch him try again.
Furthermore, the world is passing away, and so is its desire.
But the one who does the will of God remains forever.
If the world is passing away, and our life in this system of things is temporary,
shouldn't that affect how we use our time and energy?
For example, imagine that you're visiting relatives in another village for a few days.
They kindly give you a room.
However, the bed's not as comfortable as yours.
The walls could use a few more pictures, and there's no window.
Would you purchase a larger bed for your stay, and some pictures for the walls?
Or would you take time to install a window?
Of course not.
You're only staying a few days.
We might relocate the chairs and tables, and a few simple things to make our surroundings more comfortable during our temporary stay.
But we would not go to great effort or expense to redecorate the entire room.
In like manner, we keep matters simple during our temporary residency in this old system,
giving our main focus to kingdom interests.
Jesus illustrations were simple.
For example, the kingdom of the heavens is like leaven that a woman took and mixed with three large measures of flour
until the whole mass was fermented.
It's just one sentence about baking bread, a situation familiar to his audience.
This simplicity made Jesus illustrations appeal to the heart.
Jesus also used illustrations to teach main points, not minor details.
So use illustrations selectively.
If you were to use an illustration to teach a minor detail, your audience may remember the illustration
but not the point of instruction.
How can you find appropriate illustrations?
Be observant.
Look at the world around you.
Study our Christian publications and listen to skilled teachers.
Some experience teacher save illustrations in a file to use later.
If you want to teach like Jesus, enhance your teaching with simple illustrations that appeal to your listeners
and that teach main points.